[MUSIC]
This week you were introduced to
the k-armed bandit problem, and
several fundamental concepts and
reinforcement learning.
We started by describing
the problem setting.
We have an agent taking actions and
receiving rewards based
on the action selected.
We defined the value of each action,
as the expected reward received,
when taking that action.
The value function q star
is unknown to the agent.
We then introduced the Sample-Average
Method for estimating q star.
It uses the sum of rewards
received when action a is taken,
divided by the number of
times a has been taken.
We derived an Incremental update rule
by finding a recursive definition of
the sample average.
By doing so, we need only store the number
of times each action has been taken,
and the previous estimate.
We then show that we can make
the StepSize more generic, and
in fact, by using a constant StepSize,
we could more effectively solve the bandit
problems that change over time.
Next, we ran into the issue of
Exploration versus Exploitation.
We defined Exploration as the chance for
the agent to improve its knowledge, some
actions may be better than we realize, we
have to try the actions we may not think
are the best to improve our estimates.
We defined Exploitation as the agent
taking the action it currently thinks is
best, in the hopes that it
will generate the most reward.
[SOUND] The agent cannot explore and
exploit simultaneously, so
how do we choose when to explore and
when to exploit?
To answer this question, we introduce
Epsilon-Greedy Action Selection.
Epsilon-Greedy explores Epsilon
percentage of the time, and
exploits 1 minus Epsilon
percentage of the time.
When Epsilon-Greedy exploits,
it chooses the action which maximizes
the current value estimate.
When Epsilon-Greedy explores,
it chooses an action Uniform randomly.
We also investigated the effects
of Optimistic-Initial Values.
If the initial values
are larger than Q star,
the agent will systematically
explore the actions.
The optimism fades with time and
the agent eventually stops exploring.
Finally, we discussed
Upper-Confidence Bound Action Selection.
UCB mixes exploitation and exploration
through the use of confidence intervals.
UCB uses the strategy of Optimism
in the Face of Uncertainty.
[SOUND] And that's it for bandits.
This week we introduce some of the most
fundamental concepts in reinforcement
learning.
We can largely view the bandit
problem as a subset
of the larger reinforcement
learning problem.
Concepts like maximizing reward and
choosing actions when
faced with uncertainty,
are key to reinforcement learning.
We're excited to begin introducing
the full reinforcement learning problem
next week.
Be sure to read the textbook for
the next week's lectures.